think this depends on which specific work you are reading. His earlier works, Dubliners and A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, can be read as you would read any work of serious fiction: attentively, without hurry, savoring the excellence of the language, and bringing your general knowledge to bear on the prose to look for symbols, allusions, and interconnections. They are all there to find.

To read Ulysses or Finnegans Wake with reasonable comprehension is beyond most of us without expert help. I haven’t read Finnegans Wake, but I’ve read Ulysses 5 or 6 times. My last time through (or 2 times through, as you’ll see) was the best. Before starting, I reread the Odyssey of Homer and I read a book on Irish history (Ireland: A Short History by Joseph Coohill—pretty dry going, but okay). Then I started reading Ulysses, using 4 separate guidebooks:

The New Bloomsday Book (ISBN 0415138582) by Harry Blamires, which tells you exactly what’s going on in the story—not always easy to figure out from the text itself!
A Reader’s Guide to James Joyce by William York Tindall, published in 1959. I happened to have inherited this book from a friend, so I used it, but I wouldn’t necessarily recommend going out to get your own copy.
Finding Joy in Joyce: A Readers [sic] Guide to Ulysses (ISBN 1581127626) by John P. Anderson. This is a maverick self-published work by a lawyer and lifelong Joyce fan. He brings in a lot of interesting ideas and connections, especially mystical Eastern ones, you don’t find elsewhere.
“Ulysses” Annotated: Notes for James Joyce’s “Ulysses” (ISBN 0520067452) by Don Gifford with Robert J. Seidman. This is a substantial reference book that seeks to provide information on every reference and allusion within the text of the novel—no mean feat.
I proceeded thus: I would read a chapter of Ulysses; then I would read the material in each of the guidebooks on the relevant chapter; then I would read the chapter again. I read the whole book this way. It took time, but I got a lot out of it.

I would recommend this method. You could do it fine using just The New Bloomsday Book and “Ulysses” Annotated. If you want to understand what you’re reading, those are indispensable. With them, you will read the novel with something like full comprehension, and will be able to hold your own in conversations about it.

As for Finnegans Wake, that’s still in the future for me. I got myself a copy of A Skeleton Key to Finnegans Wake by Joseph Campbell and Henry Morton Robinson some years ago, but I haven’t cracked it yet. Perhaps I never will.

Start with Dubliners and roll forward. And enjoy. Joyce is one of the best writers of English ever to put pen to paper.